---
layout: post
title: Ecuador 2018: Travels with my Brothers     
author: Spencer Robitaille
---
## Ecuador 2018: Travels with my Brothers.
The totally not a beach vacation that I'm glad I did. 
-----

It has always been my mother's desire for her 3 sons to grow up to be friends, as well as siblings. Over the last few years each of us 3 brothers have been in University/College and away from home and have been talking about taking a trip together. When I went to university my youngest brother was going into grade 9, and my middle brother was going into grade 11. Since then we've each taken very different paths, and haven't been able to spend quality time with each other to actually get to know each other as adults.
This spring we finally got that chance when we booked our tickets to Ecuador! We landed on May 15th in Quito where we spent a few days before heading west to the coast. Landing in Quito was a bit of a shock, as we had no idea what to expect. We stayed in the Mariscal district which is known for it's bars and nightlife. It was a very safe feeling neighborhood during the day, and at night was swarmed with locals heading out for drinks. There were a few bars for tourists but we didn't head out to many bars here. We were content to hang out in the Hostel with other travelers and head to bed early, the altitude made it hard to stay awake late into the night!
In Quito we visited the old town and did a walk up to a view point that overlooked the city, we hadn't acclimatize to the altitude yet and it felt like we climbed 1000 stairs even though is was probably not even half that. The next day we went to up the cable car to the mountain overlooking the city, what a view! Connor was suffering from the altitude here, and I tried to push my luck by sprinting up a slope. I've never been so out of breath!
Our next stop was to head west to the coast to visit the party town of Montanita. The only thing in our way was a night bus and short second bus ride down the coast. Easy. Except that I lost my wallet. The first hour of arriving in Montanita was spent trying to set up my credit card for use as a debit card (Which I later found out would charge me additional fees, which I didn't think it was supposed to. I can't complain though, as it was my own fault. Don't lose your debit card.)
Montanita is known for it's beach and surfing waves, unfortunately for us the weather was over cast and we didn't get to enjoy the beach as much as we would have liked. There are also snorkling adventures that you can take, but we were again unable to go because the water was too croppy to see anything. Despite the weather trying to stop us, we still had a great time. $3 cocktails in cocktail aisle definitely helped! The food there was also the best that we had on our trip, big ups to to Pigros for being my best meal in South America.
After we were partied out we headed to a mountain adventure town called Banos which is named for it's thermal hot springs. Banos is a town for the thrill seeker, with white water rafting, ziplining, hiking, and cliff top swings. Us Robitailles are not the best with heights so we took a pass on the ziplining and swings and went white water rafting. I had been before in Ottawa but this was much more fun! It was a much faster pace with non stop action the whole time! It also only cost $25 compared to ~$120 in Ottawa. Totally worth it.
Our final days after Banos we spent back in Quito, here we got some fine alpaca sweaters and blankets and took a tour to Cotopaxi. Up the volcano we went, all 3 of us unprepared. 2 of us in running shoes, 1 of us in sandals and 5 pairs of socks, but we made it to the refuge! Connor again suffering from altitude, but he was a trooper and made it through the blustering winds and snow. A wild last day with my brothers.
The next day we said our good byes and my brothers headed off to the airport while I prepared to head south to Cuenca. While my brothers are unlikely to do a trip like that again, it was a valuable experience that taught us a lot about each other and will hopefully just be one of our many adventures together as adults.
